# Cleaning data scraped from AirBnb
I realised this code as part of a group assignment for the Data Management & Visualisation course at Copenhagen Business School.\
Other team members: Augusta Marie Grønberg Christensen, Catarina De Carvalho Fernandes Bastos Carapinha

## DESCRIPTION OF THE PROJECT
For this project, we were given a dataset scraped from Airbnb, focused on the listings and respective hosts in the area of Copenhagen in June 2022. We opted to leverage this data into assisting a fictional Copenhagen-based hospitality start-up called MindWonder with their strategy definition, by providing industry-level insights to be integrated into their medium/long-term goal of efficiently scaling their portfolio of managed properties without compromising the quality of the tailored service they’ve been providing to their clients. MindWonder is a start-up that connects hosts and guests together on a platform, catering only to the Copenhagen market, operating as a smaller and local “Airbnb” that benefits from the opportunity to build stronger links with the hosts, while providing a more tailored service to the guests. MindWonder has seeked our assistance to get a better understanding of the Airbnb market, to strategically scale their business through better host partnerships and more invested customers, so they can effectively take over some of Airbnb’s market share in Copenhagen.\
We decided to divide the project into five data-related tasks: cleaning, describing and analysing, grouping, visualising and drafting business recommendations. We started by troubleshooting data on Excel, filtering information and looking for notable details like the number of unique and null values, maximums, minimums, and the presence of strong outliers. Then, the .csv file was loaded into Python and transformed into a Pandas DataFrame in order to proceed with the cleaning. Before starting with the cleaning, we used the methods .describe() and .info() to gather additional information about the data. The cleaning process covered dropping irrelevant columns for the scope of the investigation, standardisation of the remaining columns, the correction of faulty entries, the transformation of entries to make them more usable, and the population of columns. The resulting DataFrame was exported as a .csv file, which was then opened as a text file and loaded with SQL onto PgAdmin, where the data was split into two tables. After cleaning in Python, a new DataFrame that serves as a description and analysis of the most relevant columns in the manipulated Airbnb dataset was created with statistics as average, standard deviation, median, mode, and percentage of missing values.\
Considering MindWonder’s case and business goals, our subsequent steps went from cleaning the data, to studying eventual correlations, to achieving a final result in the form of an insightful Tableau dashboard and business recommendations tailored to MindWonder’s needs. We built a total of eight visualisations covering the relations between variables as location, price, ratings, host response rates, availability, property characteristics, among others. The consequent visual exploration of data allowed us to gather relevant insights regarding the role of location in the listings’ ratings and average price, the importance of host response rates in the number of bookings and reviews, and how the option to instantly book a stay impacts its availability.
Based on these findings, we strategically advised MindWonder to consider focusing their business around the borders of central Copenhagen, in popular but less saturated neighbourhoods such as Noerrebro and Amager East. We also suggested the implementation of a notification system that reminds hosts to respond to potential guests within a few hours, as that seems to have a positive impact on reviews. Additionally, we advocated them to experiment with instant bookable listings, as the data depicts a significant positive relation between that feature and both number of reviews and listing’s availability.
